XXX is the most amazing professor that I have ever had! He explains things in such a brilliant way to help you learn fast. He's a super nice person and a patient listener where he takes efforts to understand your situation and help you out. He is defnitely hilarious, too! No one can teach this content better, and I highly recommend XXX's class!
Brilliant teacher. He really cares about your career choice and potential in progressing in computer Science. His lecture is ok, as long as you read the textbook you can do really well in class. Class is super lenient so you need spend a great amount of time to brush up your programming skill.
He is a GREAT teacher! When you have problems about your assignment, feel free to ask him, he will reply u patiently and will make sure u understand it. He talks about the career and personal experience of programming, it's really useful. He'Ll give you good grade if he knows u put efforts in. Over all, u'll regret if u didn't choose his class.
XXX is a super AWESOME teacher. He cares about students a lot and is always there to help. Don't afraid to ask questions! XXX leaves one-hour class time for answering questions. There is an attendance requirement. You probably don't want to miss any class lectures cuz they are important. XXX also brings guess speakers, who work in tech field:D
XXX is a great teacher. Text book is free. Attendance not mandatory but sometimes you do projects/group work for points but this can be made up outside. Passionate and flexible. Highly recommend. Quizzes/tests open book/web. You can do well in this class if you keep up, communicate and give effort.
Wonderful guy. Professor XXX is so freaking nice. I think its more a fault for his format than himself as a teacher. I took the hybrid and it just wasn't enough hands on time with face-to-face interaction with him for something as complicated as Java. You basically have to be motivated heavily by self-study. If you aren't, good luck. Book is boring.
He usually left the last hour of class for the questions on materials or hw, which is super helpful since he's willing to sit with you and help with all problem you have and try to figure it out with you. There is no deadline for homework! So you will have a stress free assignment. He really cares about you and your future plan.
XXX is probably the nicest instructor you'll ever have! He'd help you with anything. By anything, I meant not just this course. He's pretty busy, but he's always fast to responds. He cares more about your career goal more than just Java. We had many guests speakers from the real professional world. Very inspirational and encouraging.
XXX is an awesome teacher who is best when he goes off book and speaks from experience. He's an industry pro who teaches part time. Usually there is time each class where you can ask questions and get help on the coursework, take advantage of this. Stay up to date on the homework and pay attention during the lectures, you'll do well.
I personally have taken java class before at my original college, but in conceptual part, I like this class better. Because XXX cares about more informative, theoretical concepts in java class other than other professors. He's very easy to approach and helpful for students. I feel so luck to meet him actually! Plz pay attention on your hw's.
Took night course. You get what you put into the course, just like any other. Put time into doing the hw, if you think the hw is easy, challenge yourself to write it in less lines. If you're struggling, ask questions. XXX is happy to help, offers plenty of time to finish homework in class. Follows book closely. Brings prof mentors to share exp.Industry professional teaching PT, rather than a FT professor. The professor was easy to reach, quick to answer questions via email, communicated well with the class, and wasn't afraid to admit when he didn't know an answer to a question, but would take the time to look it up with you and help you understand it. Class emphasis on post graduation.